# Nginx Proxy Manager 

## contents 
- Installation
- Reverse Proxy 
- SSL Certificate 

## installation 

1. Install Docker and Docker Compose 
2. Install npm 

create a docker-compose.yml

```

version: '3'
services:
  app:
    image: 'jc21/nginx-proxy-manager:latest'
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - '80:80'
      - '81:81'
      - '443:443'
    volumes:
      - ./data:/data
      - ./letsencrypt:/etc/letsencrypt


```

visit localhostip:81 on url , for accessing the ui 

Default admin user:

Email: admin@example.com
Password: changeme

# Configure Reverse Proxy 

### Create an upstream server:

1. Click on "Proxy Hosts" in the left sidebar.

2. Click on the "+ Create Proxy Host" button.

3. Enter the domain or subdomain for which you want to create the reverse proxy.

4. specify the IP address and port of the backend server you want to proxy to.
Configure any other desired settings, such as SSL certificates, access controls, or custom headers.
Save the configuration.

# Using Cert_bot 

### Installation 
Install certbot on the host machine 

'''

sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y certbot

'''

Request for the certificate 

```
sudo certbot certonly --standalone -d example.com -d www.example.com
```
replace example.com with actual domain .



### Configure SSL certificates in Nginx Proxy Manager

1. Click on "SSL" in the left sidebar.
2. Click on the "+ Create" button.
3. Enter the domain or subdomain for which you obtained the SSL certificate.
4. Choose the "Custom (PEM)" option for the SSL certificate type.
5. Paste the contents of the certificate file generated by Certbot into the "Certificate" field.
6. Paste the contents of the private key file generated by Certbot into the "Private Key" field.
7. Save the configuration.

### Associate SSL certificates with proxy hosts

1. Click on "Proxy Hosts" in the left sidebar.
2. Select the proxy host for which you want to associate the SSL certificate.
3. In the "SSL" tab, choose the SSL certificate you created from the drop-down list.
4 .Save the configuration.

Restart the container .

Nginx Proxy Manager will now use the SSL certificates obtained through Certbot for the specified domains.
